
<b> [<<Home](../Readme.md) </b>

# Rust tools

Cargo is the Rust package manager. Most Rustaceans use it to manage their Rust projects because Cargo handles a lot of tasks for you, such as building your code, downloading the libraries your code depends on, and building those libraries.

- it is installed with rust by default
- it is used to create new project, build, run, test, and publish
- it is used to manage dependencies

```bash
cargo new project_name
```

Rustfmt is a tool that automatically formats your Rust code in a consistent style.

```bash
rustfmt main.rs
```

# Cargo

- `Cargo.toml`: This file is a manifest that describes the project. It contains all the metadata that Cargo needs to compile your project.
- `src`: This directory contains your Rust project’s source code.
- `target`: This directory contains all of the compiled executables and libraries that Cargo has produced.
- `Cargo.lock`: This file is automatically generated and tracks the dependencies of your project. It’s best not to edit this file by hand.

## create new project

```bash
cargo new project_name
```

## build project

Navigate to the project directory and run the following command:

```bash
cargo build
```

## run project

Navigate to the project directory and run the following command:

```bash
cargo run
```

## cargo check

The `cargo check` command is used to quickly check your code for errors, but it doesn’t produce an executable.

```bash
cargo check
```

## can we do cargo run without building?

Yes, you can. The `cargo run` command will automatically build the project before running it. If the project has already been built and no changes have been made since the last build, `cargo run` will simply run the existing executable. If changes have been made, `cargo run` will first rebuild the project, incorporating the changes, before running it.

you can also use the `cargo check` command to check your code for errors without producing an executable.
